Think: "Show and tell and defend" 
Somewhere in the presentation - show the timeline (past, present and future)
SES 
Viable project and risk management plan - more of visual diagrams 
Not textual slides 
Diagram - detailed level of context diagram 


1. Every repeatable Activity that you do this semester should be documented according to the meta-model framework.

A good example of a documented Activity was shared by Punn (Chawit) of the IRAlogix team during the Checkpoint Review. You can find it here in the video recording starting at 3:49:33.

Think of an Activity as a part of a larger end-to-end process such as requirements management.

For at least one Practice Area, there should be an end-to-end connection between the Activities in that area.

We want to see teams move from ad-hoc use of AI to principled use of AI. Use and non-use of AI should be justified with evidence. Reusable prompts should be treated as version-controlled artifacts. - common claude 


the Software System they will create for their client.
the Software Engineering System they’ll use to create the Software System.
their project and risk management plan


4 sections - arjun and Liu:
Understand what is asked, come up with visually appealing and artifacts backed idea to convey the content 

SES  - Jai, hrishi and Ashritha 

SES - https://github.com/AshrithaG/eparts

Identify repeatable activities:






Project Context [Abt. 5 minutes] - Arjun/ Liu 
Client, business, product, stakeholders
Project goal(s)
Problem to solve and value to stakeholders
Solution concept
Overview (timeline) of the team’s work to date.

Management [ Abt. 7 min.] - Arjun/ Liu 
Project plan to end of year
Key risks and mitigation
Team roles and responsibilities to implement the plan
Measurement plan 
Resources to implement the plan (e.g., tools, learning, etc.)

Software System: Requirements [Abt. 7 min.] - Liu/ Arjun 
Functional requirements
Non-functional requirements and constraints
Scope and priorities: decisions and reasoning about tradeoffs and implications

Software System: Architecture [Abt. 7 min.] - Liu/ Arjun  
Context Diagram
Quality Attributes
Architectural drivers: decisions and reasoning about tradeoffs and implications

5. Software Engineering System [Abt. 7 min.]
SE System “overview” [i.e. deep dives are done in the 1:1 Critiques]
SDLC choice
Processes, artifacts, measurements and resources (including AI use/non-use), per the meta-model framework
Evidence that process will be effective, particularly with AI
Decisions and reasoning about tradeoffs and implications


6. Reflection and Closing [2 min.]
2 key lessons learned, with at least one about the use of AI in Software Engineering
Closing


Viability of Project and Risk Management
The extent that the team's project and risk management is likely to lead to project success.
(includes plans, estimates, tracking, etc.) - 3 pts
Exemplary
The project and risk management is viable.


Soundness of Software System Definition
The extent that the software system for the sponsor is clearly understood and sufficient to execute the rest of the project successfully.

(e.g., goals, requirements, priorities, quality attributes, constraints, context diagram, architectural drivers, tradeoffs) - 5 pts
Exemplary
The software system definition is: Clearly specified Appropriate Sufficient Prioritized Tradeoffs, implications and decisions were explicit and well-reasoned.


Strength of Engineering System: DECISION QUALITY - 5 pts
Exemplary
All 4 of these are true: 1. Clear decisions 2. Strong justification with evidence 3. Tradeoffs explained 4. Consistent reasoning


Strength of Engineering System: ELEMENTS
per the Meta-Model framework, an engineering system has these elements:
- Processes
- Key artifacts
- Measurements
- Resources - 5 pts
Exemplary
The engineering system has all appropriate, identified, well-defined, completed and documented elements.


Crit Performance
The extent that the team clearly articulates their team's work, decisions and reflective thinking, while actively engaging with feedback to foster critical dialogue and professional growth. - 2 pts
Exemplary
All 4 of these were true: 1. Effective communication of team’s work 2. Deep, thoughtful reflection 3. Actively engaged with feedback 4. Balanced team member participation
